# MiniJava Compiler

A compiler for MiniJava, a fully object-oriented language and a subset of the language Java. MiniJava is designed so that its programs can be compiled by a full Java compiler like `javac`. The BNF version of MiniJava can be found [here](http://cgi.di.uoa.gr/~thp06/project_files/minijava-new/minijava.html). The MiniJava compiler converts the MiniJava code into the intermediate representation used by the [LLVM compiler project](https://llvm.org/). It then uses `clang` (version 4.0 and newer) to generate the executable file.

## Getting Started

To get the MiniJava compiler up and running on your local machine, simply follow the following instructions.

### Prerequisites

First, you need to download `clang` (version 4.0 and newer) using the following command:

```
sudo apt install clang-4.0
```

### Downloading

To download the source code of the MiniJava compiler use the following command:

```
git clone https://github.com/vsakkas/minijava-compiler.git
```

And to enter the directory of the downloaded project, simply type:
```
cd minijava-compiler
```

### Building

To build the compiler, type the command below:

```
make
```

### Running

Finally, to run the MiniJava compiler, use the following command:

```
java MiniJava <yourfile>.java
```

The example above will generate 2 new files in the same directory as `<yourfile>.java` is:
* `<yourfile>.ll` which contains the LLVM IR code that was generated by the compiler.
* `<yourfile>` which is the executable produced by `clang` and can be run by using the command `./<yourfile>`.

The above example compiles only one file. However, multiple files can be used. In this case, the compiler will generate 2 new files for each of the input files that were given. (Note: the source files do not need to be in the same path as the compiler. Full and relative paths can also be used.)

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details

